---
title : "Adding a custom domain to Office 365"
date : 2016-11-08
---

Office 365 provides the ability to add your own domain. When setting up
Office 365 Microsoft gives you a onmicrosoft.com domain out-of-the-box.
If you want to use your own domain, and for most companies this is
preferred, you can add your own domain using the setup wizard in the
Office 365 admin center. This will provide you the ability to use your
own email in Office 365 or login using to Office 365 and Skype for
Business, using your own domain.

Open the Office 365 portal and go to the admin center. From the admin
center, click 'Go to Setup' to open the setup wizard.

In the next screen, check the 'I already own a domain, and click
**Next.**

Now you have to prove that you own the domain. In order to do that,
login to your domain registar and add the record which is generated by
Office 365 in the next screen.

*If you not already own a domain but need to buy one, return to the
admin center, choose Domains, choose buy new domain and follow the
steps.*

After that, click **Verify**.

Office 365 will connect to the domain registar and validate if the text
record is there. If all went well, you go to the next step, which is
adding users.

For now, click **Next**. You can add users from the admin center later.

In the next screen, you can install apps. Skip this step, you can do
this later as well. Click **Next.**

The last step, gives you the ability to migrate your email messages. For
now, click **don't migrate email messages** and again, click **Next**.

For setting up DNS, there are two possibilities. First is **Setup my
online services for me**, which Microsoft Recommends. If you already
have an existing website and you only want to migrate email to Office
365, don't choose this setting. If you do (and I accidently did...),
your website becomes inaccessible. So, if you have already have an
existing website, choose the second one, **I'll manage my own DNS
records** and click **Next.**

In the next section, Office 365 will provide you with the records which
need to be added to your DNS. Login to your domain registar and add the
records. You can click verify after you've added them all or after
adding a few of them and Office 365 will check if they are valid.

This completes the steps for adding a custom domain to Office 365.

You can refer to the following articles for more information:

- [Add users and domain to Office
  365](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Add-users-and-domain-to-Office-365-6383f56d-3d09-4dcb-9b41-b5f5a5efd611?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US)

- [Change nameservers at any domain registrar to set up Office
  365](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Change-nameservers-at-any-domain-registrar-to-set-up-Office-365-a8b487a9-2a45-4581-9dc4-5d28a47010a2)

- [Set up your domain in Office
  365](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DoRRkYlgTjI)
